hey this is presto Walker and you're
watching mind your decisions this puzzle
was sent with the dubious claim that
only a genius could solve it but it's
still a fun logic problem so let's try
and work it out a number lock has a
three-digit code can you crack the code
from the following hints 6-8 to one
number is correct and in the correct
position six four five one number is
correct but in the wrong position 206
two numbers are correct but in the wrong
positions 738 nothing is correct
seven eight zero one number is correct
but in the wrong position can you figure
it out give this problem a try and when
you're ready keep watching the video for
a solution so how can we figure this
problem out well rather than working
from the top clue down to the bottom I
like to try and find a clue that gives
the most information so personally for
me I would start with the fourth clue
that 738 nothing is correct this means
we can eliminate all three numbers seven
three and eight from all of the
possibilities so when we look at all of
the other numbers we know that wherever
we see an eight or a seven or a three we
can say that cannot be the correct
number so now let's just start working
from the first clue we know that one
number is correct and in the correct
position but eight is not a correct
number this means either two is correct
or six is correct but they're both not
correct otherwise we'd have to correct
numbers now let's combine this
information with the second clue that
six four five one number is correct but
in the wrong position if six was in the
correct position in 682 it would also be
in the correct position
in six four five so six cannot be
correct and that means two is correct
and correctly positioned in six eight
two so we've eliminated six as a
possible number and two has to be
correct and in the third spot now from
the second clue we know that six is not
a correct number and we know one number
is correct
so either four is correct or five is
correct but not both now we go to the
third clue well we know six is not a
correct number and we have two correct
numbers so that means both 2 and 0 are
correct numbers but they're in the wrong
positions from 6-8 to we know that 2 is
in the third position and since 0 is in
the wrong position in 206 that means 0
must actually be correct in the first
position so the code has to look
something like 0 blank to so how do we
get that final third number well let's
take a look at this clue again the code
is either 0 4 2 or 0 5 2 if the code was
0 for 2 then 6 4 5 would have a number
in the correct position but it does not
therefore the code must be 0 5 2 and
that's the correct answer 0 5 2 is the
correct combination did you figure it
out thanks for watching this video these
math videos which can be watched for
free on YouTube inspire and build
confidence for people around the world
and they already have over 800 million
views let's share the beauty of
mathematics with your help we can map
the world a better place please
subscribe for free to get the newest
videos watch and share all of my dreary
decisions videos email me a puzzle or
map topic presh and mind your decisions
calm and if you so choose you can check
out my books which are listed in the
video description and you can support me
on patreon for exclusive rewards thanks
for watching and thanks for your support